+++ 
title = "比较字符串（包含以及变位词）" 
date = "Sat, 04 Jun 2016 09:48:00 GMT" 
categories = ["算法"] 
description = "Write a method anagram(s,t) to decide if two strings are anagrams or not. Compare two strings A and B, determine whether A contains all of the characters in B." 
+++ 


#####  Description

Write a method anagram(s,t) to decide if two strings are anagrams or not.

**What is Anagram?**

- Two strings are anagram if they can be the same after change the order of characters.

#####  Example

Given s = "abcd", t = "dcab", return true.

Given s = "ab", t = "ab", return true.

Given s = "ab", t = "ac", return false.


#####  solution：

    class Solution:
        """
        @param s: The first string
        @param b: The second string
        @return true or false
        """
        def countchar(self,ch):
            result = {}
            for item in ch:
                ikey = ord(item)
                if result.has_key(ikey):
                    result[ikey] +=1
                else:
                    result.setdefault(ikey,0)
            return result

        def anagram(self, s, t):
            # write your code here
            dicS = self.countchar(s)
            dicT = self.countchar(t)
            if not cmp(dicS,dicT):
                 return True
            else:
                return False

####  Compare Strings

#####  Description
Compare two strings A and B, determine whether A contains all of the characters in B.

The characters in string A and B are all Upper Case letters.

**Notice**
>The characters of B in A are not necessary continuous or ordered.


#####  Example
For A = "ABCD", B = "ACD", return true.

For A = "ABCD", B = "AABC", return false.

#####  solution

    class Solution:
        """
        @param A : A string includes Upper Case letters
        @param B : A string includes Upper Case letters
        @return :  if string A contains all of the characters in B return True else return False
        """
        # used a list with 26 iterm to save the number of each alphabet

        def compareStrings(self, A, B):
            # write your code here
            if B is None:
                return True
            elif A is None:
                return False

            CntA = self.countString(A)
            CntB = self.countString(B)

            for order in range(ord("Z")-ord("A") + 1):
                if CntA[order] < CntB[order]:
                    return False

            return True

        def countString(self,string):
            count = []
            for item in range(ord("Z")-ord("A") + 1):
                count.append(0)
            for item in string:
                count[ord(item) - ord("A")] +=1
            return count



